docs: API promotion documentaiton (#455)
gravitee-io/gravitee-docs: pages/apim/3.x/user-guide/publisher/promote-api.adoc

= Promote APIs
:page-sidebar: apim_3_x_sidebar
:page-permalink: apim/3.x/apim_publisherguide_promote_apis.html
:page-folder: apim/user-guide/publisher
:page-layout: apim3x
:page-liquid:

== Overview

> The following sections describe how you can promote an API from an environment to another one.

Reviewer: The following sections describe how you can promote an API from one environment to another.

> The following sections describe how you can promote an API from an environment to another one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe how you can promote an API from one environment to another. 
```

> For a quick introduction to create an API in APIM, see the link:/apim/3.x/apim_publisherguide_create_apis.html[Create an API^].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a quick introduction to create an API in APIM, see link:/apim/3.x/apim_publisherguide_create_apis.html[Create an API^].
```

> NOTE: This feature is available from APIM 3.10.0 and need your installation to be linked to Cockpit. For more information about Cockpit, see the link:/cockpit/1.x/cockpit_overview_introduction.html[Cockpit]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: This feature is available from APIM 3.10.0 and your installation has to be linked to Cockpit. For more information about Cockpit, see link:/cockpit/1.x/cockpit_overview_introduction.html[Cockpit]
```

== Context

* Two installations
** One linked to Demo and Production environments
** Another one linked to Dev and QA environments
** An API to promote
+
image::apim/3.x/api-publisher-guide/promote-apis/graviteeio-promote-api-cockpit-graph.png[Map of installations in Cockpit]

== Request promotion for an API

Here, we will see how to promote our API from environment `DEV` to environment `QA`.

> Following actions are done with an API Publisher on `DEV` environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following actions are done with an API Publisher on `DEV` environment:```

. Go to the API to promote and click on image:icons/promote-button.png[role="icon"] *PROMOTE* button
+
image::apim/3.x/api-publisher-guide/promote-apis/graviteeio-promote-api-promote-1.png[Promote button]
+

> . A window listing the environments available for the API promotion will pop up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. A window listing the available environments for the API promotion will pop up
```

+
image::apim/3.x/api-publisher-guide/promote-apis/graviteeio-promote-api-promote-2.png[Target environments list]
+

> NOTE: If a promotion request already exists for your API on an environment, then you cannot do another request until the previous one is rejected or accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If a promotion request already exists for your API on an environment, you cannot do another request until the previous one is rejected or accepted.
```

+
image::apim/3.x/api-publisher-guide/promote-apis/graviteeio-promote-api-promote-2-bis.png[Target environments list]
+

> . Choose the environment on which you want to promote the API, and click on *PROMOTE* button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose the environment you want to promote the API on, then click the *PROMOTE* button
```

NOTE: When promoting an API, *members* and *groups* information are lost.

> NOTE: If a promotion has already been accepted for an API, you can request for a new promotion on the same target environment. When this promotion will be accepted, it will update the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: If a promotion has already been accepted for an API, you can request a new one on the same target environment. Once this promotion accepted, the API on the target environment will be updated.
```

> NOTE: If a promotion has already been accepted for an API, you can request for a new promotion on the same target environment. When this promotion will be accepted, it will update the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If a promotion has already been accepted for an API, you can request a new promotion on the same target environment. Once this promotion is accepted, it will update the API.
```

== Accepting a Promotion

> As a user of `QA` environment, promotion requests are visible in *Tasks* section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a user of `QA` environment, promotion requests are visible in the *Tasks* section.
```

> . Go to tasks section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to the *Tasks* section
```

+
image::apim/3.x/api-publisher-guide/promote-apis/graviteeio-promote-api-promote-3.png[Promotion tasks]
+

> . You can choose to accept or reject the promotion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You can choose to accept or reject the promotion:
```

** Rejecting the promotion will delete the task.
** Accepting the promotion will:

> *** Create or update the API, depending on if it has already been promoted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*** Create or update the API (depending on if it has already been promoted or not) 
```

> *** Delete the task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Remove the task.
```
